From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hansel minutes, a weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologists and Scott Hanselman hosted
by Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number 74. Recorded
Friday, July 13th, 2007. Support for Hanselman
it's is provided by Telerik
rad controls, the most comprehensive
suite of components or windows
forms, asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com.
Support is also provided by
slash and software red carpet
subscriptions. The most comprehensive solution
for adding connectivity to your.net
and asp.net applications with components
for every major internet protocol
online@wwwdotandsoftwaredotcomandby.net developers journal the world's
leading.net developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode has gotten
Carl talk with Jeff Atwood
about building a new developer
machine without breaking the budget.
Hi, this is Carl Franklin and
you're listening to Hansel minutes
from Hansel minutes. I'm here
with Scott and Scott's very
special guest Jeff Atwood. Hi
guys. Hello? Hey, Jeff. Good
to talk to you again.
Yeah. So what are we
going to talk about gentlemen?
Okay. So we did a
show a couple of episodes
ago about building the ultimate
developer PC and it went
okay. But ultimately the guy
who's building the PC for
me is Jeff and Jeff
is building it because he
is deeply obsessive passionate about
stuff that I really don't
care about. And he's got
some really great posts that
he's put up on his
blog@codinghorror.com about the process of
the building. He's just about
finished up with those posts
on the hardware side, I'll
be taking them over and
doing the software side. But
what I thought we would
do is we'd go through
some of the comments of
show 69 on building a
developer PC with some people
said, wasn't a particularly interesting
show because the argument is
that a gamer PC would
make a perfectly good developer
PC. So they're kind of
arguing that the postulate was
wrong from the beginning that
any fast machine is a
good machine. Okay. For developers,
for developers. Well, do you
think that's true Jeff part
of the hardware that you're
working on and that's the
part that I really enjoy
going a little bit deeper
than the software and actually
seeing how a good developer
will understand, You know, if
you're hitting the disc a
lot, the consequences of that,
you know, when is the
network, the bottleneck, when is
the CPU, the bottleneck, and
when you build the hardware,
that's really what you do.
You're playing a shell game
of where's my bottleneck going
to be and understanding that
I think it's very much
the same as a audio
recording. You know, the way
you get a good recording
starts with hardware, but too
many people put emphasis on
the hardware itself. A lot
of it is, you know,
Mike placement and, you know,
configuration of, of preamp gain
levels and things like that.
Good technique. So on a
PC, I got to think
that, okay, it's good to
have your, you know, raid
mirroring and everything else, but
if you're not configured correctly,
or if you don't have
the right drivers or the,
you know, right. Enabling you
just brought up an interesting
point when you said Mike
positioning. Because the first thing
I thought about and actually
was mentioned in the comments
here on show 69, was
that people don't take into
consideration comfort. I know that's
something that Jeff, you're very
passionate about specifically the chair
and three monitors. Wow. Yeah,
yeah. And that's the first
thing I said to Scott
actually was, you know, Scott,
have you bought your three
monitors yet? Because actually the
computer becomes, I don't want
to say inconsequential, but not
nearly as important as you
know, the things you, you
touch, the things, you see,
things that are going to
have the biggest impact on
your, your, your daily computing
experience. So that's right. We
don't want to lose the
forest or failed to see
the forest for the trees,
if you will. No, I
know I read on your
blog before that you have
a specific kind of keyboard
that you use, that you
like bought the them. They
don't make them anymore. And
you run around on eBay
looking for this keyboard. Yeah.
That was the old Microsoft
natural ergonomic keyboard. Fortunately they
introduced a new model. The
a, I believe the ergonomic
4,000, it's a black keyboard.
Cause I, I personally, I
like the ergonomic, the split
configuration. And then as a
developer, the other thing about
keyboards that drives me nuts
and actually there's developers at
Virgo that use these keyboards.
And I'll never understand is
where they've, they've moved the
configuration of the arrow keys
from the Tetris block shape
to like a diamond or
something crazy. And similarly insert
home page up that cluster
will be rotated. This is
to make the keyboard smaller.
But as a developer, I
mean, those are golden keys.
You know, those all the
time, those cannot move. So
that is one of the
things I look for both
to be ergonomically split. Cause
I prefer that. And then
that it's not what I
call mangled, meaning that the
arrow keys are in a
traditional arrangement and the home
and page up block is
conventional in arrangement. Well, that's
a good reminder to everybody
to kind of rethink the
keyboard. Are you using this
particular keyboard that you're using
now because it came with
the machine or because you've
had it for years or
because it's truly a comfortable
keyboard. I mean, if you're
gonna spend $2,000 on a
computer, why not go and
try out a bunch of
keyboards and spend your 70
bucks on a decent, a
decent keyboard and mouse set?
One of the mice that
I use that I finally
landed on is the evaluate
Verde vertical mouse, hold your
hand and in a handshake
position. So it doesn't cause
the bones of the forearm
to twist over each other.
When you put your hand
over the mouse and that's
made a huge difference, very
important, my hand pain, I
need a new mouse for
that exact reason. One of
the problems I find with
mouse manufacturers is they try
to, they try to improve
a very simple device by,
Oh, here's the worst, the
software that comes with the
mouse. If anybody in my,
in my organization, installs mouse,
software, they're fired. You know
what I mean? Why are
you installing that spyware? What
is it that come, why
does mouse need software? Carl,
that's a really great point.
And it actually reminds me
of a blog entry that
I want to write, which
is nobody hates software more
than software developers. It is
so true. And I swear,
this is true. My wife
was going to install the
software that came with her
digital camera and I saw
her doing it. It was
almost like slow motion. I
had to die. You know,
cause it's just crap where
it's just gonna mess up
the PC and sure enough,
we, we have Vista at
home and she plugged it
into Vista, recognized it automatically
pulled in the pictures. It
was totally automatic. Right? You
don't need any other additional
software. So think the sensitivity
level has gone high Rez
enough. And in fact, I
find myself turning it way
down from what they, you
know, they say, you know
what, that's a selling feature.
A mouse going to agree
with Jeff is not gonna
agree with that at all.
I really don't like highly
sensitive mice. Well, I think
the adjustability is cool and
actually adjustability in hardware. This
is another thing where it's
actually better to have this
feature in hardware because it's
operating system independent. There's nothing
to configure, et cetera, et
cetera. I like my mices
where you actually have the
buttons that adjust the sensitivity.
Cause what I'll do is
when I'm graphic editing, like
I'll turn up the sensitivity
and then turn it back
down for normal browsing and
so on. No problem. That's
a problem. I have, see,
I have a razor mouse,
you know, those are a
Z R mice and you're
probably like this mouse, but
it's got like seven buttons
on the sides and stuff
and I'm always hitting them.
And then the sensitivity just
went up and I ended
up dragging up a really
big file to the recycle
bin by accident. So, so
which mouse do you have?
Jeff? I know you have
one with a hardware adjustable
sensitivity. This is a collaboration
between razor. Now I have
not historically been a fan
of the razor, my third
too hardcore and you know,
just low rider type mice
with like neon and all
that stuff. It's just silly.
But the razor Habu is
actually a collaboration between Microsoft
and razor and it mimics
the classic and telehealth shape,
which a lot of people
love and think it's like
evolutionarily one of the best
mice ever created with the
mouse 3.0 shape. So it's
sort of a mixture of
both. It's got some sort
of cool, you know, on
the fly hardware adjustment features,
but it's sort of a
classic shape as well. And
doesn't have too many buttons.
So I think there's a
good blend of features you
can find. And I think
the lesson here is like,
like Scott was saying, like
don't spend $2,000 on a
computer and just use the
trashy $10 keyboard that Dell
gives you. Right? Like, think
about these that you touch
every day and put some
time and effort into finding
ones that you really like,
you know? And there's also
ergonomic consequences as well. I
mean, I'm fortunate in that.
I almost never have hand
pain, but I know so
many developers personally like Phil
hack, John Galloway and Scott have
all had huge problems with
hand pain. Have either of
you guys use the data
hand or seen it, I've
seen it, but I just
can't justify that kind of
money. Yeah. It is expensive.
But you know, if you're
really trying to solve the
problem and I think that's
a world worthwhile thing. I
can't, I, I haven't, I
use it. Okay. So I
have one and I practice
with it, but I don't
feel comfortable enough yet to
just go out and replace
my mouse and keyboard. And
we'll, we'll add a link.
You should send that to
me, Karl, you should FedEx
that to me and I'll
use it for a couple
of weeks and then do
a, do a review on
it. That's not a bad
idea. So let's let let's,
let's talk about, we talked
about keyboard mice. These are
all things developers touch everyday.
Now when people saw the
configuration of the system, you're
building from each F, they
immediately thought we were building
an SLI gaming machine because
they saw that there were
two video cards and you
kind of came in in
the middle of the comments
and said, Hey folks, this
is for multiple monitors up
to four different monitors. Why
do you feel so strongly
about the number three for
your monitors? Well, there's a
couple of reasons. One is
I think you can never
have enough display space. You
just can't like one of
tough Dee's point Edward Tufty
the, the UI guy is
that displays are so low
resolution. All you can really
do is have a lot
more of them and you
spend less time manipulating windows.
I think I touched on
this a little bit in,
in the dotnet rock show.
And I still believe in
that it's like, it's basically
stop overlapping windows, overlapping windows
does not help productivity. Right?
So the reason two versus
two is one is unacceptable.
You should have two minimum
as a developer. That's part
of the bill of rights,
right? But I think three
is even better if you
can swing it. And I
realize it is more complexity
at that point, you're dealing
with two video cards. So
I totally appreciate the difficulty
in doing it, but if
you're building your own rig,
this is what it's about.
It's about having things that
developers need. And I think
having a center monitor, so
you don't have that like
border directly in the middle
of your, you know, display
space is huge because I
can focus on the middle
monitor and throw things like
in minority report, they just
throw windows around. I'll throw
the windows over to the
side. Then I'm like, Oh,
I'm going to come back
to that. I'm going to
come back to that. And
I focus on the middle.
So having a middle is
a big deal. So it's
really two things just having
a middle and just having
as much display space as
you can. I mean, sometimes
I'll hear developer say, Oh,
why don't you just get
a giant 30 inch monitor?
I'm like, well, why not
get two giant 30 inch
monitors or three? I mean,
it's not a zero sum
game where you have one
giant monitor. I really want
to, you really want to
have to spin around in
your office chair just to
check your email. You know,
I mean, there comes a
time where I think what
he's talking about is filling
up 170, 160 degrees of
your visual space. Now, now
you're now the problem goes
from your wrist to your
neck. I mean, there's, there's,
there's wasted peripheral vision there.
I mean the greatest monitor
set up I've ever seen
was the one that we
did on that we talked
about on the monorail show.
When we talked to the,
the guys from Ellucian software,
they've got a big 30
inch, middle 16 by nine
monitor. That's running like 20,
20, 48 by something I've
seen. And then they took
two 22 inch 16 by
nines and turn them on
their sides. And the width
of them happened to be
the exact height of the
30 inch monitor in the
middle. So Richard Campbell has, he's
got a, he's got a
30 inch in two 24
is I think on both
sides. Now Jeff is my
machine gonna be able to
run that kind of Rez?
Oh absolutely. You should have
no problem. But I think
that's a brilliant configuration. And
that's exactly the kind of
insight I want to get.
When you build your own
PC, you have the flexibility
of using three monitors. So
like use it, do it.
This is what sets you
apart. I mean, granted, you're
not, it's not going to
make you a genius programmer,
but you know, this is
the whole point of going
to all this effort is
to have these new and
interesting options. And I love
the configure described with one
in the middle and the
two on the sides rotated
to match the height. The
only thing you've got to
watch out for, with rotation,
and this is a subtle
point clear type. Okay. So
clear you've changed the RGB
orientation of the pixels. So
all of a sudden, instead
of three X horizontal resolution,
you have three X vertical
resolution. And to my knowledge
clear type currently can't change
its orientation. So you gotta
be a little careful there.
That's true. I have personally
noticed that. Well, when you
say you gotta be a
little careful, isn't that a
deal breaker? No, it's not
a deal breaker. It's just
depends on what you're using
them for. I mean, if
you're, if you're sitting close
to them doing, if you
a designer doing work in
blend and you're spending a
lot of time doing several
items and Christmas and clarity
truly matter. But if you're
just using one monitor for
a SQL enterprise manager and
one for outlook in the
middle monitor is where you
live in visual studio. I
think that's perfectly reasonable. I'd
have to, I'd have to
see it to pass judgment.
It's it's truly amazing. I
may, I may think about
given that one of the
thing though, I don't want
to waste anything. I've already
got a perfectly good 20
inch monitor and a 22
and 16 by nine. So
I've got to figure out
what I can do to
conserve those existing monitors. There
is a lot to be
said for having matching sizes,
because I'll tell you at
home, I have matching sizes
and it works. They're slightly
different and it is a
little annoying because things just
sort of warp as they
go from one monitor to
the other. And it's inserting
it is nice to have
alignment on your monitors. Well
specifically DPI alignment. Yeah. I
would almost say you can
do that, but it's physically,
they have to have sort
of the same DPI for
the effect to really work.
It's absolute opt for it
to be optimum. It'll still
be good. But if you
want optimal, I would almost
say sell those on eBay
or just, you know, donate
them or, but just get
matching monitors. You will be
happier in the end. Well,
certainly the wife acceptance factor
won't allow me to do
that. I need to be
pretty specific about what I
do with my money, but
let's, let's move on to
the CPU because one of
the things that I said
is I want this thing
to be obscenely fast, but
I want it to be
as cheap as possible. And
I think the whole thing
is come in under, I
think we're at 1800 bucks.
The last time we talked
and we're talking about a
quad core here, and there's
a gentleman in the comments
of show 69 named Abdu
who comments a lot on
my blog. He always has
a lot of really thoughtful,
thoughtful comments. And he says,
you know what exactly is
a developer's machine? Is it
a machine that has vs
2005? I mean, everything else
is fine. If I have
fast memory and fast, hard
drives, I'm cool. He says,
I'm not sure what a
dual or quad core is
going to buy. You have
XP and visual studio are
not going to optimize themselves
when they see more than
one CPU, he says he
doesn't believe that XP does
well with parallel jobs is
a quad core overkill for
what I did. I don't
think so. In fact, I
think as developers, we should
be on the cutting edge
in terms of multi-core future.
If you predict sort of
the future of where CPS
are going to go, you're
not going to have one
CPU running at 20 gigahertz,
not going to happen. The
physics don't work, what is
going to happen is you're
going to have a core
running at say four gigahertz
with like 64 different processors
on it. So if nothing
else, as a developer, you
want to be experiencing this
multi-core future and thinking about,
Hey, how do I make
my app run faster without
relying on the crutch of,
Oh, let's just increase the
megahertz. You gotta actually fundamentally
code a different way, but
I think it's valuable from,
from on that level. And
then on a practical level,
I know a lot of
people complain that Vista is
slower, but Vista does a
lot more stuff than XP.
It's doing windows defender in
the background, it's doing indexing.
It's doing, you know, tons
of, you know, UAC is
going on in the background.
It's doing a lot more
stuff. I mean, it's, you
know, a five year older
operating system, you would expect
it to do more. So
since it's doing more, it's
multitasking more. So if each
little task has its own
core, like if antivirus has
its own core, you're going
to have a better experience.
So do you think that
this, I mean, what's the
best way to utilize these
other cores as an app
developer? Or does this mean
that some little shareware application
that I decide to download,
that's going to sit in
the tray might start forking
off other processes to do
some works in order to
get those processes running on
different cores, Right? So the
way scheduling works and you
most modern operating systems are
very good at scheduling tests.
They send tasks to an
idle CPU. So if you
have word Excel, visual studio,
SQL server running, and you
have a four core machine,
basically each one of those
gets in effect kind of
a private core to play
on. It's really shared resource,
but whoever's available will service
requests. So there's four guys
in the queue now waiting
to service these requests. Jeff,
do you ever set the
affinity on your processes when
Justin asked that you nailed
it? Carla, my first question
was like, do I have
to tell outlook to stay
on core three? Or is
this going to happen for
me? This is what I
call useless tweaking. Okay. So
affinity in certain very specific
instances can have effects, but
for general purpose sort of
applications that are doing a
lot of, you know, just
general purpose computing tests, there's
really no value in micromanaging
the CPU time like that.
But that's what the, the,
the operating system scheduler does.
And it does a very
good job at it. Just
not something you really need
to think about. I sure
feel a lot better when
I right. Click on something
in task manager and up
too high or above average
on priority. It sure seems
to make a difference to
me sometimes. But Jeff, that's
always been my, my thought
too, as you know, the
operating system scheduler is, is
far better at keeping track
of those things. Then you
are in real time, Right?
And it's just like in
writing and.net, I would have
people that were constantly like
trying to outsmart the framework.
It's like, let me think
about what the framework is
doing and let me like,
you know, manually garbage collect
right now. And it's almost
always a bad idea and
it's sort of the same
Avenue. You can do it.
And there are specific instances
where it actually will help,
but they're really rare. So
basically just let the operator
out of our operating system,
do you know, do its
job and don't sweat the
small stuff, but that said,
and also priority is another
one that can actually be
very dangerous to play with.
I have a whole blog
post on sort of the
danger of sort of manipulating
priority. It's something developers love
to do. Oh, I can
create a new thread. Oh
wow. I can set the
priority as a threat. Right.
You know, and then they
set it to like some
extremely high priority and it
locks up their machine or
just, there's a lot of
bad things that can happen
if you micromanage this stuff.
So, All right. So that's
a very excellent segue because
one of the other comments
on show 69 was by
a gentleman named Matt. And
he says, Carl is such
a girl about overclocking now,
Jeff, what is that all
about? I think, what did
I say on that episode?
You basically said you didn't
think overclocking was, was worth
the effort. They said, what
Jeff just said is don't
micromanage this thing, let it
do it, let it do
its job. So to kind
of defend that against what
you just said, Jeff, how
has overclocking differently? I feel
I have to defend being
called a girl about overclocking
here. First. It was said
with, it was said with
a smiley face that helps.
No. Sure. I understand. I'm
probably the reason that I
don't worry about it is
because I'm not a gamer.
And I think probably overclocking
is, you know, that's what
the gamers do to get
more, you know, I never
had a need to overclock
my PC, but see I
wanted to overclock it because
I told Jeff what my
original price point was. I
think I said it was
four grand. And then, and
then I was told by
my wife that it was
not in fact four grand.
And I said, Jeff, how
can I get another thousand
dollars out of this without
actually spending another thousand dollars?
Jeff. So, so let me
first answer that the criticism
of this is micromanagement by
first saying that it absolutely
is micromanagement. The fact that
we're building a PC. I
mean, you, you could go
to Dell and buy and
have Dell do the work
that we're going to do.
So we've already committed to
micromanaging. At this point, we
said, you know, look the
kind of control we need
over the PC. We're going
to micromanage this part of
what we're going to do.
So overclocking is a way
of extracting more value out
of that time. So just
building a stock PC is,
you know, it feels like
a way even more of
a waste of time, because
at least if you build
sort of a custom overclocked
PC, you can say, look,
you know, I built it
myself, but look, this thing
goes, you know, 20% faster
than it would normally go.
I saved a thousand dollars
over the CPU that I
would've paid for to get
that speed. And I have
everything exactly the way I
want it. So by definition,
we've entered sort of in
a position of micromanaging by
design because we want to,
we enjoy it. We get
something back out of it.
So it's a reasonable, Well,
let me ask you this
because I'm on the verge
of having my mind changed
here by Jeff, Jeff. I
don't know that much about
overclocking because I'm not a
gamer, as I said, and
I never felt that it
was something that was necessary,
but do you, do you
think it's safe? I mean,
is it something that's safe
to do? And if it
was, if it is safe,
why didn't they come over
clocked in the first place?
Well, they do now from
day, There are some doses
and send in fact our
oral clock. They're very, very
expensive though. So those are
exorbitantly. So they charge a
premium to set a flip
a bit in the bios.
Well, I think they set
a premium to have an
individual human being flip a
bit in the bios and
then burn it in for
a day and do all
the kinds of stuff that
Jeff's doing. You know, it's,
it's not some, not every
processor can be guaranteed over
clock. I mean, they have
a certain personality to them.
They're they are organic things
and you know, one might
be over clockable and one
might not. I mean, they're
not always stable. And when
you answer this question, Jeff
talked to me about safety.
I mean, one of the
guys commons commented on my
post about the building of
this machine and how it
was gonna be over clock.
And he said, he'd had
trouble with a compiler spitting
out bad code and an
overclocked system. Well, that'd be
normal for you. Right. I'm
just kidding. I'm just kidding.
So my philosophy here is,
okay, it's kind of like
the philosophy that I have
towards code. And to me,
there's a lot of parallels.
There's a synergy between the
software and the hardware. Not
that I wanna spend all
my time messing around with
hardware, but I think there's,
there's lessons there that apply
to both sort of disciplines.
And one of those lessons
is it's kind of fun
to break stuff. Like it's
fun to see the failure
modes, because if I can
see it fail, if I
can understand the failure, if
I can take it and
break it and then fix
it, I now understand what's
actually happening. Right? So a
lot of some developers, if
you gave them a PC
and their PC starts started
blue screening, they're like, what
do I do? I'm I'm
completely hosed my machine's blue
screening. Whereas I would go,
let's look at this machine.
Let's, you know, I understand
why machines blue screen, because
I've caused them to blue
screen. Like heat is a
really common problem. So one
of the first things I
do say, you know, what
opened the case, put a
house fan blowing directly on
it. If it's still blue
screens, then I can tell
you it's not a heat
problem. It's something else. And
then start swapping parts out.
So I've gone from being
a guy who has to
take my car to a
really expensive mechanic because I
don't know what to do
to guy who can like
change my own tires. If
you know, I get a
flat tire on the highway.
And I think there's a
lot of utility in having
some of those skills, not
all of them, but, but
enough to be converse and
enough to be, you know,
if you get yourself into
trouble, you can get yourself
back out of trouble. So,
so that's sort of my
philosophy there is, is I
want to be able to
break it so that I
can understand it. Now you
can see why I asked
Jeff to build this for
me. Sure. I guess I'm
just getting old guys. You
know, I used to have
the energy to go after
why my machine is blue
screen. Now I just kick
it. You know, It's totally
valid position too. I just
want to emphasize that. I'm
not saying this is the
correct right way. And if
you're not doing it this
way, you're not doing it.
The wholly approved way, it
is totally valid to outsource
this and say, look, you
know what? I let don't
worry about that. You know,
somebody else anyway, there was
a great, great comment on
my blog. And I just
want to read it to
you as an example from
another field. I think it's
similar to how you'll frequently
see celebrity chefs on PBS,
go to a winery, an
organic farm or a bakery.
They aren't going to learn
something there that will make
or break their ability to
cook a specific dish. But
as a master craftsman, they're
passionate about their tools and
ingredients. They want to know
everything they can about them.
And I think that's what
it's about. It's like saying,
Hey, I'm so into this,
I just want to do
this, right. It doesn't make
me better than you. It
doesn't make me worse than
it was just something that
I personally find interesting. I
enjoy that aspect of it
and I want to explore
it. And it does kind
of feed back in and
sort of make you a
better developer. And in some
ways I think Really that's
a very, very compelling argument.
Sometimes people say that, like
if I go traveling, why
do I bother learning a
local language? I can just
stay at the holiday Inn.
You know, it's the same
kind of thing. It's not
in any way meeting, making
any kind of a qualitative
value judgment about one person's
style versus another person's style.
You know, if you want
to go to Africa and
eat at burger King, you
know, the burger Kings are
there. I mean, they're there.
I mean, you can totally,
you can stay in Bulawayo
Zimbabwe at the holiday Inn
and you can eat at
burger King and there's nothing
wrong with that. That's just
not how I roll. And
then that's not how Jeff
rolls. No. Sure. Right. Yeah.
So hang on though. I
didn't think we answered the
question about is, is the,
is the overclock system going
to be correct? How much
have we overclocked our system
from, Well, how do you
know your code is correct?
This is the whole philosophy
of like unit testing. My
torture test is a unit
test on the hardware, right?
I'm just sitting there running
prime 95 for instances, one
for each core for hours
and hours and hours until
I'm fully confident Prime number
generator that just keeps calling
or something. What is it?
Prime 95 is a prime
number generator, but as one
of the side effects, it
turned out to be really
hard on CPU. So they
actually added a menu item
based on its popularity as
a CPU sort of testing
tool to what, to do
various kinds of torture tests
in school. Cause you can
adjust the formula based on
the size of the prime,
the prime number. You're calculating
it either loads like just
the CPU, the level one
level, two cache. Or if
you do a big enough
one, it starts loading the
memory as well because these
things get too big to
fit in the cash. It's
a really great tool. I
love it. And it exposes
overclocking failures really rapidly, which
is another reason people like
it. Like you may think
you're stable. You could like
compile code all day long
and use internet Explorer or
Firefox all day long. But
the minute you fire up
prime 95, you're going to
fail. And that's why we
love it so much. Cool.
So is there anything we
missed? Well, I think one
last question we didn't cover
that came in all of
the comments was about whether
or not raid be it
software or hardware was important
to the developer PC. Ah,
well before Jeff chimes. And
I'll just say, I think
I'm mirroring with hardware raid
a system drive is a
necessity today. I, I wouldn't,
I wouldn't build any new
machines that didn't have the
system drive mirrored. I just,
I, you know, I just
don't want to worry about
losing stuff, so Right. And,
and I, and I'll follow
on with Carl's statement by
saying that is the one
method of raid that I
think is absolutely safe and
totally recommendable is if you
want redundancy, mirroring is great.
Cause it's just a binary
copy. So if at any
0.1 drive fails, you just
literally toss it and put
the other one back in
and you're back in business.
There's nothing complicated to figure
out about raid a raid
mirroring. Now on the downside
of raid though, beyond mirroring
is there's all these different
variants, like many, many different
variants of rates, some are
for performance or for redundancy
and some do both, but
it's all complexity, right? So
you're always balancing how complex
do I want my system
build to be versus how,
you know, how reliable and
simple to work on and
understandable do I want it
to be? I've had a
bad luck with a lot
of motherboard raid implementations where
they tend to be very
specific, very proprietary and particularly
raid striping, which a lot
of people do for performance
where the reads are. It's
very dangerous because it doubles
your chance of drive failure.
And on top of that,
it doesn't really improve performance
really enough to justify. So
my general recommendation with rate
is, you know, just be
really careful with it. I
would, I would advise sort
of shying away from it
unless you have some really
compelling need. Like you do,
you do video, video editing
and you know, that's the
one thing you need. That's
fine. So it's a question
of like, where's your bottleneck,
right? So when we're building
this developer PC, we're building
a PC free of major
bottlenecks, but on a video
editing PC, the disc might
be more of a bottleneck
than a developer PC. So
that might be a rational
argument at that point. So
I would probably say if
I am putting words in
your mouth, Jeff, that a
10,000 RPM or a 15,000
RPM system drive would be
a better investment mirrored than
a mirror drive. No, I
think Jeff, because I don't
think the system we built
is married, not married. Well,
if you're trying to save
money, you probably don't want
to buy two wrapped doors,
you know? Right. That's right.
So, so it's again a
question of why have two
drives that when you could
have one, right? That's the
simplest, the argument. So rather
than two 7,200 RPM drive
in, you know, a striped
mode for speed just by
one Raptor and you'll get
all the same benefits. This
goes for video as well.
I think Scott was saying,
why mirror? You know, and
yeah, my question is, should
I buy another drive? Should
I put another drive in
the sheet there? Because it
really comes down to ultimately
how much of your time
is worth? What does a
rap tour cost right now?
150 gig, 10,000 RPM wrapped
or Jeff, if your system
drive blows up, is it
worth the time that it's
going to take to whether
with a raid set up,
but let's what does that
worth? Jeff? 200 bucks. Okay.
So one 30. So let's
say that you're a consultant
and you're paid one 30
an hour. So you're doing
your work in the middle
of something. And the last
backup that you did was
last night. So if you
are running raid and drive
dies, you keep working. If
you're not running Ray or
in your, excuse me, if
you have mirroring and your
drive dies, you're cool. If
you don't, then you're going
to lose more than an
hour as time. Definitely. If
you're a consultant and you're
doing mission critical work, well,
raid mirroring won't guarantee you
against a corrupt NTFS volume
or a screwed up registry.
If a drive goes down
for want of $130, you,
you may suffer, right? But
everybody has a lot of
different backup strategies. I know
Scott, you probably have backup
strategies. So you might decide,
you know, as much as
I'm backing up, just another
piece that I have to
add, it's completely up to
you. No, that's totally valid
for me. Folder share is
my mate folder share and
to version are my major
backup strategies. I mean, for
me, I've got my data
spread across five different machines
and photo share, backs them
up within a few seconds
of things changing. So I'm
pretty comfortable. I've also got
several offsite backups. So while
I would still lose an
hour, cause I'd have to
re image the whole system.
I probably lose four hours.
You know, basically let's just
say this, let's be Frank.
You lose a system, drive
you down for the day.
Right? Pretty much you have
raid pretty much if you,
yeah. And even if you
do have raid, they're still
getting down on your hands
and knees on doing that
drive and you're going to
lose maybe an hour, half
an hour at tops. Well
guys, I think we've set
ourselves, right. Don't you think
Scott? I think so. I
think we need to just
come up with a title
for this, you know, there's
little a podcasts, the Hanselman
it's part, but the building
a developer's PC this time.
We're serious. Yeah. I think
that, that works for me.
Jeff. Thanks for joining us.
You're welcome. I enjoyed it.
Tell us about this new
machine Scott, when you get
it all up and running,
it's going to be very
cool. Alrighty. We'll see you
next week on Hansel minutes.